---
title: "Sia"
description: "Remote for Sia Decentralized Cloud"
date: "2019-10-02"
---

# {{< icon "fa fa-globe" >}} Sia

Sia ([sia.tech](https://sia.tech/)) is a decentralized cloud storage platform
based on the [blockchain](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain) technology.
With rclone you can use it like any other remote filesystem or mount Sia folders
locally. The technology behind it involves a number of new concepts such as
Siacoins and Wallet, Blockchain and Consensus, Renting and Hosting, and so on.
If you are new to it, you'd better first familiarize yourself using their
excellent [support documentation](https://support.sia.tech/).

## Introduction

Before you can use rclone with Sia, you will need to have a running copy of
`Sia-UI` or `siad` (the Sia daemon) locally on your computer or on local
network (e.g. a NAS). Please follow the [Get started](https://sia.tech/get-started)
guide and install one.

rclone interacts with Sia network by talking to the Sia daemon via [HTTP API](https://sia.tech/docs/)
which is usually available on port _9980_. By default you will run the daemon
locally on the same computer so it's safe to leave the API password blank
(the API URL will be `http://127.0.0.1:9980` making external access impossible).

However, if you want to access Sia daemon running on another node, for example
due to memory constraints or because you want to share single daemon between
several rclone and Sia-UI instances, you'll need to make a few more provisions:
- Ensure you have _Sia daemon_ installed directly or in
  a [docker container](https://hub.docker.com/r/nebulouslabs/sia)
  because Sia-UI does not support this mode natively.
- Run it on externally accessible port (e.g. provide `--api-addr :9980` on
  the daemon command line)
- Enforce API password for daemon via environment variable `SIA_API_PASSWORD`
  (password still can be blank if `siad` runs with `--disable-api-security`
  but this is **insecure and strongly discouraged**).
- Set rclone backend option `api_password`.

## Configuration

Here is an example of how to make a `sia` remote called `mySia`.
First, run:

     rclone config

This will guide you through an interactive setup process:

```
No remotes found - make a new one
n) New remote
s) Set configuration password
q) Quit config
n/s/q> n
name> mySia
Type of storage to configure.
Enter a string value. Press Enter for the default ("").
Choose a number from below, or type in your own value
...
29 / Sia Decentralized Cloud
   \ "sia"
...
Storage> 29
** See help for sia backend at: https://rclone.org/sia/ **

Sia HTTP API URL
Like http://127.0.0.1:9980
Enter a string value. Press Enter for the default ("").
api_url> http://127.0.0.1:9980
Sia API Password
siad API Password
y) Yes type in my own password
g) Generate random password
n) No leave this optional password blank
y/g/n> y
Enter the password:
password:
Confirm the password:
password:
Edit advanced config? (y/n)
y) Yes
n) No
y/n> n
Remote config
--------------------
[mySia]
type = sia
api_url = http://127.0.0.1:9980
api_password = *** ENCRYPTED ***
--------------------
y) Yes this is OK
e) Edit this remote
d) Delete this remote
y/e/d> y
Current remotes:

Name                 Type
====                 ====
remote               sia

e) Edit existing remote
n) New remote
d) Delete remote
r) Rename remote
c) Copy remote
s) Set configuration password
q) Quit config
e/n/d/r/c/s/q> q
```

Once configured, you can then use `rclone` like this:

- List directories in top level of your Sia storage

```
rclone lsd mySia:
```

- List all the files in your Sia storage

```
rclone ls mySia:
```

- Upload a local directory to the Sia directory called _backup_

```
rclone copy /home/source mySia:backup
```

{{< rem autogenerated options start" - DO NOT EDIT - instead edit fs.RegInfo in backend/sia/sia.go then run make backenddocs" >}}
### Standard Options

Here are the standard options specific to sia (Sia Decentralized Cloud).

#### --sia-api-url

Sia HTTP API URL
Like http://127.0.0.1:9980

- Config:      api_url
- Env Var:     RCLONE_SIA_API_URL
- Type:        string
- Default:     ""

#### --sia-api-password

Sia API Password
siad API Password

**NB** Input to this must be obscured - see [rclone obscure](/commands/rclone_obscure/).

- Config:      api_password
- Env Var:     RCLONE_SIA_API_PASSWORD
- Type:        string
- Default:     ""

### Advanced Options

Here are the advanced options specific to sia (Sia Decentralized Cloud).

#### --sia-user-agent

Siad User Agent
Sia requires the 'Sia-Agent' user agent by default for security

- Config:      user_agent
- Env Var:     RCLONE_SIA_USER_AGENT
- Type:        string
- Default:     "Sia-Agent"

#### --sia-encoding

This sets the encoding for the backend.

See: the [encoding section in the overview](/overview/#encoding) for more info.

- Config:      encoding
- Env Var:     RCLONE_SIA_ENCODING
- Type:        MultiEncoder
- Default:     Slash,Question,Hash,Percent,Del,Ctl,InvalidUtf8,Dot

{{< rem autogenerated options stop >}}

## Limitations

- Modification times not supported
- Checksums not supported
- `rclone about` not supported
- rclone can work only with _Siad_ or _Sia-UI_ at the moment,
  the **SkyNet daemon is not supported yet.**
- Sia does not allow control characters or symbols like question and pound
  signs in file names. rclone will transparently [encode](/overview/#encoding)
  them for you, but you'd better be aware
